---
date: '2016-07-13'
layout: post
slug: ipadpro
tags:
- hardware
- apple
- review
title: iPad Pro Review
---

After some thought initially on a new laptop, I decided to spring for an iPad Pro 12.9". So far I am really glad I did, the computer comes with me everywhere. I bring it to work, to visit family, on trips and everywhere in between.

It's the ultimate work computer in many ways, always with you, light enough and comfortable enough for real work™. The keyboard shortcuts in iOS have improved massively from iOS 8 to iOS 9 to the point of actually being useful and the split screen view is actually rather nice to use (I never "got" it on a Mac). 

So enough about the good things, what about the bad? Well I'm [repeating a lot of others with this list](https://www.macstories.net/stories/on-ipad-features-or-lack-thereof-at-wwdc-2016/ "Macstories - Lack of iPad features at WWDC 2016"), but in many ways that gives me hope that they will be fixed:
- A better way to switch the smaller app in split view (it's totally nonsensical how recent apps are shown)
- Require keyboard shortcuts in apps (along with [the other suggestions here](http://9to5mac.com/2016/02/28/wwdc-2016-wish-list/ "9to5 Mac Wishlist for iOS 10"))
- Drag and drop between two split screen apps (Safari has started this, its' tabs can be dragged to create split view of two browser tabs) 
- A way to spotlight search for an app to open in split view
- Allow apps to download and run code (for IDE apps) - Apple's upcoming Swift playground app seems to do this (it definitely lets other applications contribute code)
- Either buy Workflow or integrate a system Automator app (like macOS) with options on scripting language
- Some good points on [this wish list for security](https://brooksreview.net/2016/06/ios-10-security-wishlist/ "iOS 10 Security Wishlist"), an Apple provided VPN for Wifi Hotspots would be great

And too many more to mention. Along with pro applications (which I would say are in the class of: Omni apps, Microsoft apps, Panic apps), the iPad Pro really shines. Unless you need a good programming IDE or another app is missing, I wouldn't hesitate in buying it!