---
date: '2016-05-01T00:00:00Z'
slug: remote-book
tags:
  - book
  - review
title: 'Remote: Office Not Required'
---

I recently read [Remote: Office Not Required][1] by David Heinemeier-Hansson
(who created Ruby on Rails) and Jason Fried (who co-founded 37 Signals with
Heinemeier-Hansson). This book is really a case study in why the future of work
will be remote, of which the book did convince me (but I would say, I already
believed).

![][image-1]

The book is really structured to convince those who do not believe in the
premise of the title. It talks about many successful companies who have
transformed themselves to work remotely fully and large corporations who save
lots of money on office space (IBM, being one example).

The biggest criticism I would have is that the book is simply too positive. It
brushes over negatives, if it really ever discussed any (I came away not
remembering any one overtly negative point). Also, the book never tackles what
the future of remote working really will be, i.e. how it can be better. Some of
the downsides of remote working (isolation being the major one) can be tackled
with the help of technology, but the book never explores this point (in fairness
it could be the topic of a book in and of itself). That would have made this a
lot more interesting read!

Overall I would give this book to skeptics, but I would expect them to believe
very little of it (or how it could apply to them, if your not IBM or a cool hip
startup). A decidedly average book, considering a lot more could be discussed
with the topic.

**Rating** 2.5/5

[1]:
  http://www.amazon.co.uk/Remote-Required-David-Heinemeier-Hansson/dp/0091954673
[image-1]: /img/16/remote-book.jpg
